upload-encrypted-artifact/README.md, before:

<!-- NOTE: This file's contents are automatically generated. Do not edit manually. -->
# upload-encrypted-artifact (Action)

This action creates an encrypted artifact.

This action archives the provided paths into a file named `archive.tar`, encrypts it producing `archive.tar.bin`, and uploads the encrypted file as an artifact.
- Cipher: OpenSSL symmetric cipher (default: aes-256-cbc)
- KDF: pbkdf2 with salt (OpenSSL default for `-pbkdf2 -salt`)

Important:
- Do NOT echo the passphrase (key). Keep it only in GitHub secrets.
- Use the matching `download-encrypted-artifact` action to download, decrypt, and extract (untar) the archive in consumer workflows.

## 🔧 Inputs

|      Name     |                                              Description                                             |Required|       Default      |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------------------|
|    `paths`    |Space-separated list of files/directories to include in the archive. Globs are supported by the shell.|   Yes  |                    |
|     `key`     |                Passphrase to use for encryption (store as a secret in your workflow).                |   Yes  |                    |
|    `cipher`   |                                 OpenSSL cipher to use for encryption.                                |   No   |    `aes-256-cbc`   |
|`artifact_name`|                                    Name of the artifact to upload.                                   |   No   |`encrypted-artifact`|

## 📤 Outputs

_None_

## 🚀 Usage

```yaml
- name: upload-encrypted-artifact
  uses: eidp/actions-terraform/upload-encrypted-artifact@v0
  with:
    # your inputs here
```

Commit message:

chore: make the working directory of the actions configurable

upload-encrypted-artifact/README.md, after:

<!-- NOTE: This file's contents are automatically generated. Do not edit manually. -->
# upload-encrypted-artifact (Action)

This action creates an encrypted artifact.

This action archives the provided paths into a file named `archive.tar`, encrypts it producing `archive.tar.bin`, and uploads the encrypted file as an artifact.
- Cipher: OpenSSL symmetric cipher (default: aes-256-cbc)
- KDF: pbkdf2 with salt (OpenSSL default for `-pbkdf2 -salt`)

Important:
- Do NOT echo the passphrase (key). Keep it only in GitHub secrets.
- Use the matching `download-encrypted-artifact` action to download, decrypt, and extract (untar) the archive in consumer workflows.

## 🔧 Inputs

|      Name     |                                                                                                      Description                                                                                                     |Required|       Default      |
|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|--------------------|
|  `directory`  |Directory to run the action in. Defaults to the current working directory. If provided, the action will change to this directory before creating the archive. This is where the archive will be created and encrypted.|   No   |         ``         |
|    `paths`    |                                                        Space-separated list of files/directories to include in the archive. Globs are supported by the shell.                                                        |   Yes  |                    |
|     `key`     |                                                                        Passphrase to use for encryption (store as a secret in your workflow).                                                                        |   Yes  |                    |
|    `cipher`   |                                                                                         OpenSSL cipher to use for encryption.                                                                                        |   No   |    `aes-256-cbc`   |
|`artifact_name`|                                                                                            Name of the artifact to upload.                                                                                           |   No   |`encrypted-artifact`|

## 📤 Outputs

_None_

## 🚀 Usage

```yaml
- name: upload-encrypted-artifact
  uses: eidp/actions-terraform/upload-encrypted-artifact@v0
  with:
    # your inputs here
```
